Interaction Design Institute Ivrea (IDII)

In 2005, the Arduino project began in response to the need for affordable and
easy-to-use devices for Interaction Design students to use in their projects.
It is said that Massimo Banzi and David Cuartielles named the project after
Arduin of Ivrea, an Italian king, but I’ve heard from reliable sources that it
also happens to be the name of the local pub near the university, which may
have been of more significance to the project

This technique is great for sidestepping the intricacies of hardware and
getting the results you want. In the bonus chapter (www.dummies.com/
go/arduinofd), you learn more about the joy of hacking and how you
can weave hacked pieces of hardware into your Arduino project to control
remote devices, cameras, and even computers with ease


integrated circuit, or IC


Another varia-
tion you may find is the Arduino Uno R3 SMD, where SMD stands for surface
mount device

starting from Digital pins page 18

PWM stands for Pulse Width Modulation,


The ~ symbol appears next to digital pins 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, and 11, showing that
you have 6 pins that are capable of PWM.


Vin, which stands for voltage in

The connector needed is a 2.1 mm center positive plug. Center positive
simply means that the plug has an outside and an inside that fit the socket
and that, in this case, the inside of the plug must be positive. You should be
able to find this plug among the standard connectors that come with most
power supplies; otherwise, you can buy the connector yourself and attach it
to bare wires.
If you connect a power supply that is the opposite (center negative), it is
known as having a “reverse polarity.” There are components on the Arduino
Uno R3 to resist your attempts to send voltage the wrong way around the
board, but those components can melt in the progress of saving your board,
depending on how much power you are sending and how long it takes you to
notice the burning smell! If you reverse the polarity when using the Vin, 5V,
or 3.3V pins, you bypass this protection and almost instantly destroy several
parts of your board and the ATmega 328 chip.


The recommended voltage for the Uno R3 board is 7-12V. If you supply too
little power, your board might not function correctly. Or if you provide too
much power you can cause your board to overheat and potentially damage it


light-emitting diodes (LEDs)


The Uno board has four
light-emitting diodes (LEDs), labeled L, RX, TX, and ON

ON is green and signifies that your Arduino is powered.


RX and TX tell you that data is being received or transmitted by the board.


L is a very special LED that’s connected to digital pin 13. This is great for
testing to see whether your board is functioning as you want.


start from Shopping for Arduino page 27


start from page 32

start from chapter 4 page 41


Take a look at your LED and notice that one leg is longer than the other. Place
the long leg (anode or +) of the LED in pin 13 and the short leg (cathode or -) in
GND (ground). You see the same blink, but it is (hopefully) bigger and brighter
depending on the LED you use. Insert the LED as shown in Figure 4-12.


start from part 2 page 61

Measuring voltage (in volts) in a circuit start from page 40


start from chapter 7 page 91


start from page 92 Using Pulse Width Modulation (PWM)


Pin 9 is capable of Pulse Width Modulation (PWM),


start from page 108

we need to start read from here due to components

now we are starting from chapter 8

we need take a look on dc motor

and start from servo motor


start from page 156 making an instrument


chorus start from page 165